I'm Jeff Taurus for advanced diver
magazine and review the WorldCom and
we're talking with Kim Smith from KISS
rebreathers and I know there's some
changes in the kiss in the last year
year and a half Kim tell us about those
changes
I would love to Jeff this is our classic
kiss unit this is the one we've been
selling for over 10 years now and
there's a few changes here I think the
most popular one is the addition of the
the my Flex hoses and these are a soft
hose that still work actually if they're
twisted these come from England and they
are rated for oxygen helium nitrox
mixtures air of course and the reason we
move to this is because this is the only
hose I could find
besides the Swagelok hoses that are
rated for oxygen this weighs like being
the breed it's the grated heavy
stainless steel Teflon hose and while
they're a wonderful hose and a great
product they are very stiff and a lot of
people didn't care for them they also
don't have standard scoop of fittings on
them wear that whereas these are
standard regulator hoses so if you do
have to swap something out in the field
and you feel that you want to put a
standard regulator hose on it you can do
so but we have them in a bright yellow
color and what I like about that is that
your dive buddy can easily find where
your add valve is should he need to and
we sell packages with these hoses with
the proper fitting so people can modify
their manual and valves or if they like
they can send them in to us we can
modify and retest them for them so this
is probably our biggest and most
exciting change that people have been
very excited about one of the other
changes which is fairly recent is our
new detachable manifold and as you can
see it's it's a little further back the
new part is underneath as the mounting
there's two pins that no got now go into
a stainless steel block and while it's
very stiff and it can be difficult to
pull off it does come out we do it stiff
on purpose we don't want it to pop off
accidentally while the divers in the
water and there's also two adjusting
points on the side here so if people
want to tighten it all the way up so it
doesn't come off they can do so
or they can also back it off a bit so it
is slightly easier this dusted out a
little further the the low pressure hose
has to be about an inch inch and a half
longer to make this work it does not
interfere with taller cylinders in fact
it almost it's better so you can put
higher cylinders here yes so nineteen
low-pressure 14s 13 they all work nicely
on this system now I notice my favorite
change is if we now have greater access
to the counter lungs in here yes we do
tell me what did you get a lot of calls
about that we did and to be perfectly
frank when I went back I my original
classic kiss was number six or five or
something like that it was this little
mini thing and I really never had a
problem with the lungs but then I drove
a sport for a while and then when I
started cave diving I went back to a
classic so I set up a new classic for
myself and I was challenged in doing the
lungs and I figure I'm an average diver
and if I don't like it my customers
won't like it so I immediately had one
of my Tech's drill holes in my new
counterlung case and I don't what for
long I thought this works really well so
in our next batch of cases we now have
had this machine so between our
detachable manifold and these holes the
counter lungs are extremely easy to
access put your lungs on and off problem
solved that's terrific Thanks
you've been talking with Kim Smith from
KISS rebreathers I'm Jeff Taurus for
advanced diver magazine and rebreather
worldcom